# CMSC471-Final-Project
Visualization of K-Center Clustering Algorithms


# Workflow
We decided to partition the work for this project by each person to do a different algorithm. Josh found the data set being used, and implemented the brute force algorithms for K-means and K-centers. For the naive algorithms, our visualization lets you walk through the algorithm iteration by iteration through the use of the “Next Iteration”  button. You can select how many centers you want to cluster, the k parameter, and there's a reset button which allows you to reset the progress of the algorithm. Bhuvan came up with the idea of visualizing these algorithms by clustering the points on a U.S map. Johann did the visualization of Gonzalez's algorithm. You can walk through the algorithm iteration by iteration through the use of the “Next Iteration” button. Every iteration the visualization displays the max distance of  any given point to its closest center, which is what the algorithm seeks to optimize. Further, it assigns each cluster a particular color and draws a circle around the cluster and the furthest away point from the cluster’s center. There’s also a reset button which allows you to reset the progress of the algorithm. Bhuvan did the visualization of Lloyd’s algorithm.  You can walk through the algorithm iteration by iteration through the use of the “Next Iteration” button. As each iteration is run, the visualization displays the change in the clusters, by assigning each cluster a particular color. There’s also a reset button which allows you to reset the progress of the algorithm. Josh and Johann completed the descriptions of all the algorithms, and the non-visualization content on the website. Overall, the team spent about 20 hours per person on the project, for a total of about 60 people hours of work. Getting all the buttons to work without any conflicts took the largest amount of time. 
